# MongodbDashboard

###  How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?

Writing programs that are maintainable involves exception handling and comprehensiveness.  Ensuring that you have multiple methods that can accept different types of input and return output in specific formats allows for more flexibility in the usage of those methods.  For example, I initially had my CRUD module use print statements.  Later on I had to convert them to return the result of the query rather than print.  In the future, I will be either including a return statement after the print statement or making distinct methods for each.  The advantage to this strategy would be the ability to test the methods using built in queries, but the advantage of refactoring as needed lies in the certainty that there are not disparities between like methods.

###  How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?

I approach a problem by trying to break it down into the smallest components possible.  If I am getting an unexpected result, then clearly something isn't "connecting" the way I intended somewhere along the path between execution and output.  In that case, I strip things away until what is left works correctly, then very carefully reassemble the program, testing after every addition.  When the error does resurface, I know exactly what change in the program is causing it.  Once I know the nature and source of the problem, there isn't a real strategy beyond making it function as it is supposed to.  The main issue lies in understanding how it should function and understanding why it doesn't, and the only solution to that is research.  

###  What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?

Computer Scientists train computers to perform useful tasks.  I say "train" somewhat ironically, but in essence a programmer creates the instructions that tell computers what to do and how to do it.  Whether it involves storing local files, analyzing data, hosting a web page, or converting information, a Computer Scientist wrote the program that the computer uses to perform its operations.  This is highly important since we are now becoming comfortable in the digital age, and nearly every facet of commerce relies on computer technology not only to thrive, but even just to keep up and stay afloat.  This type of work would help a company like Grazioso Salvare by improving efficiency.  Rather than having a dedicated bookkeeper who logs and lists all the information on local dogs, a computer program can do the same task much more efficiently.  The real beauty of computer technology involves automation.  One might think that the company breaks even after hiring a programmer to replace the bookkeeper, but after the programmer creates the data management system, they can move on to make other things for the company.  The programmer doesn't have to manage the database manually, the computer is the one replacing the bookeeper.  The programmer just "trained" the computer in how to do the bookkeeper's job more effectively.  Tasks that are repetitive, boring, and/or invole tangible data and consistent mathemtics can almost without exception be performed more efficiently by a computer.  This benefits a company by decreasing upkeep costs and increasing "production".
